INSERT INTO equipment (name, usage_instructions) VALUES
('Melon Baller', '- A melon baller is a kitchen tool used to shape melon into balls. Most have a rounded or oval “spoon” at the end of a handle. Some melon ballers have 2 sizes of spoons, one at each end. Cutting into the fruit of the melon with the melon baller will form balls of melon. - Substitutions: While not perfect, a small scoop could be used to make melon balls. - Tip: Use to scoop out cherry tomatoes for appetizers.'),
('Microwave Oven', '- A microwave oven is an electric kitchen appliance that is used to cook, defrost and reheat. - Microwave ovens are available in many different sizes. Cavity sizes range from .7 cubic feet to 2.2 cubic feet. Power or wattage runs from 700 to 1250 watts or higher. - Many come with a glass plate which revolves during microwaving to provide even cooking. Some have oven racks. - Countertop and built-in or mounted microwaves are all available. Some double as a convection oven. - Substitution: Depending on what needs to be cooked, an oven, stovetop burners or a toaster oven can be substituted. - Tips: Read the manual. Melt butter and chocolate, reheat beverages and defrost meat. Buy a microwave which has a cavity big enough to hold what you intend to put in it. Many gadgets and specialized cookware are available to use in a microwave for cooking.'),
('Mixer', '- An electric mixer is a kitchen appliance used to beat, mix or whip. - Electric mixers can be small, portable and hand held for small jobs or larger more powerful stand mixers for more difficult jobs. Many of the more powerful stand mixers have special attachments such as dough hooks or paddle beaters. - Substitutions: Mixtures may be creamed, mixed or beaten by hand using a wooden spoon or whisk. It may be more difficult to create the same consistency by hand as with an electric mixer. A large food processor can be used for some recipes instead of a mixer. Be careful to process ingredients just until mixed. - Tips: Be sure beaters are clean before beating egg whites. Any fat, even a drop of egg yolk, on the beaters can prevent the whites from reaching optimum volume. Whipping cream will be faster if the bowl and beaters are chilled at least 15 minutes before beating.'),
('Mixing Bowl', '- A mixing bowl is used to hold ingredients you are mixing, beating or whipping. - A mixing bowl can be made of glass, aluminum, stainless steel, enamel, ceramic, copper or plastic. - Common sizes of mixing bowls range from 1-quart to 4-quart. - Substitution: A large, glass measuring cup (4-cup or 8-cup) may be substituted for a mixing bowl. - Tip: Keep a variety of sizes of mixing bowls on hand so you have just the right size for each mixing step.'),
('Mortar and Pestle', '- A mortal and a pestle are kitchen tools which are used to crush, grind or mix herbs, spices and nuts. A bat-shaped tool, the pestle, is used to crush or grind the food in the mortar, or bowl. A mortar can be made of wood, ceramic or stone. - Substitutions: A mini food chopper, a blender, food processor or a spice or nut grinder could be substituted in many cases. - Tips: Crush whole spices with the pestle. Mix ingredients for a rub.'),
('Muffin Pan', '- A special metal baking pan, sometimes referred to as a muffin tin, with 6 or 12 cup-shaped depressions. Most often this pan is made from aluminum. - The sizes of muffin cups are: Standard muffin cup is about 2 1/2 inches in diameter and holds 1/4 to 1/3 cup batter, Giant or Texas-size muffin cup is about 3 ½ inches in diameter and holds 5/8 cup batter, Miniature muffin cup is about 1 1/2 to 2 inches in diameter and holds 1/8 cup or 2 tablespoons batter, Muffin-top cup is about 4 inches in diameter but are only 1/2 inch deep. - Substitutions: Substitute another size muffin cup for original size listed in recipe. If substituting a larger size muffin cup the recipe will yield fewer muffins and if using smaller size muffin cup the recipe will yield more muffins. The bake time will be changed also. Bake a larger muffin longer than the original time and smaller muffins a shorter time. - Tips: Grease muffin cups by spraying each cup with no stick cooking spray or using a paper towel dipped in shortening to grease each cup. For rounded tops on muffins grease only the bottom of the cup and halfway up the side of the cup. Use paper liners in muffin cups for easy clean-up. If muffin cups are filled more than ¾ full the muffins will have flat, “flying saucer” tops. If sufficient room is not allowed for muffins to expand before reaching the top of the cup the muffin will flatten on top. If some muffin cups will remain empty during baking, put 2 to 3 tablespoons water in the unused muffin cups to keep the pan from warping. If baked muffins stick to the bottom of the muffin cup, place hot muffin pan on a wet towel for about two minutes.'),
('Nut Cracker', '- A nutcracker is a metal kitchen tool, used like a pliers, for cracking hard nuts like pecans, walnuts and filberts. The nut is gripped for safe cracking. - Substitutions: A hammer and a cutting board could be used to crack the nuts. Buy nuts already shelled. - Tip: Nutcrackers can be purchased separately or in sets.'),
('Pancake Turner', '- A pancake turner is a flat, narrow kitchen utensil, made from rubber, plastic or metal, that comes in several sizes. - Pancake turners are used to lift or remove food from a baking pan or sheet or for turning food that is being cooked. - Rubber scrapers, pancake turners and frosting spreaders are all generically called spatulas. - Tips: Use a plastic turner on a non-stick baking pan or sheet. Using a turner with holes or slots allows liquids or fats to drain off the item being lifted. Pancake turners are great for turning flaky fish fillets.'),
('Panini Grill', '- A Panini grill is a specialized countertop electric kitchen appliance used to create a pressed, grilled sandwich called a Panini. - This hinged appliance has a top and bottom with ridges. Both sides heat. A sandwich is placed on the bottom and the top is slowly lowered. As it cooks, the top lowers and compresses the sandwich. The end result is a golden sandwich with grid marks, cooked on both sides at the same time. - Substitutions: A stovetop electric grill will work. You won’t get grill marks, but any type of griddle or skillet will grill a sandwich. To compress the sandwich use a grill press. - Tips: Nonstick surface makes for quick clean-up. A small amount of butter or a quick spray of cooking oil on the bread is all that is needed to give a golden surface to the bread.'),
('Parchment Paper', '- Parchment paper is a grease and moisture resistant white or unbleached paper sold in rolls or sheets. - It can withstand high temperatures. - Use parchment paper to line cookie sheets and cookies will lift off easily. - Substitutions: In some cases, such as when lining cake pans, waxed paper can be used. Greasing cookie sheet or cake pans very well should work in most cases. Silicone mats are becoming popular replacements for some uses. - Tips: Line cake pans for easy removal of cake layers. Lay the cake pan, bottom side down, on the parchment paper. Trace around it. Cut the paper, grease the pan, and line the greased pan with the parchment paper. Lining cookie sheets with parchment paper helps with cleanup. If decorating cookies with sprinkles or sugar before baking, the excess sugar can be shaken off the parchment paper and reused for the next pan of cookies.'),
('Pastry Bag', '- A pastry bag is a cone or triangular shaped bag used for cake and cookie decorating. It is also used to pipe whipping cream, mashed potatoes or other semi-soft foods. - The bags come in many materials including plastic-lined cotton, disposable plastic and paper. - The bags can be fitted with decorative tips. The frosting or food is forced through the opening to create various designs and shapes. - Substitutions: For some quick jobs, cut a small opening in one bottom corner of a plastic food storage bag. Fill and squeeze food through opening. Buy frosting in tubes and cans in the baking section for decorating cakes and cookies. - Tip: Disposable pastry bags are sold on rolls.');

INSERT INTO equipment (name, usage_instructions) VALUES
('Pastry Blender', '- A pastry blender is made of five or six parallel U-shaped steel wires attached at both ends to a handle. - A pastry blender is used to cut cold butter into a flour mixture to distribute the fat without melting it such as in making pie crusts or biscuits. - Substitutions: Two knives held together at an angle may be substituted for a pastry blender. Use the knives to cut the fat into the dry ingredients until the pieces of flour-coated fat become smaller and have the texture of coarse crumbs. A fork may also be used instead of two knives. - Tips: Be sure the butter is cold when cutting it into the flour. If the butter is too soft, the mixture becomes overworked, resulting in a pastry that is not flaky and tender. Cut butter into chunks before mixing with a pastry blender so the butter will be easier to mix. Our Blue Ribbon Apple Pie uses a pastry blender to create the crust.'),
('Pastry Brush', '- A baking tool that looks similar to a small paintbrush, about 1 to 1 1/2-inches thick. - Common liquids used with a pastry brush are milk, water and egg whites. Use a pastry brush to brush marinades over meats also. - Tip: To avoid bacteria, or other contamination, clean pastry brush in dishwasher or with hot tap water after each use.'),
('Pastry Cloth', '- A pastry cloth is a large canvas cloth on which pastry or dough can be rolled. - Substitutions: A plain white cotton plain weave dishtowel may be substituted for a pastry cloth. - Tips: Only a light dusting of flour is needed to prevent dough from sticking to the pastry cloth, eliminating the tendency to use too much flour when rolling out soft dough. The pastry cloth must be cleaned before storing to prevent any fat residue from becoming rancid.'),
('Pastry Cutter', '- A pastry crimping wheel is a rolling-bladed tool with a fluted design. It is used to cut dough and add a decorative edge treatment to pie crusts. - A pastry cutter has a straight-edged rolling wheel and is often used to cut narrow strips of dough for a lattice topped pie. - Substitutions: For a pastry cutter, you could use a pizza cutter or sharp knife. For a crimping wheel, choose an alternate edge treatment, such as a forked edge. - Tips: To avoid bacteria, or other contamination, be sure to clean grooves carefully after each use. You can find these tools in gourmet kitchen stores.'),
('Pepper Mill', '- A pepper mill is a glass, wood or plastic container that can be filled with whole peppercorns to be ground as needed. Most have adjustments for the coarseness of the grind. The advantage is freshly ground pepper at your fingertips. - Substitutions: Many spice companies now sell peppercorns in grinder containers. Pepper shaker filled with pre-ground pepper. - Tips: Experiment with different kinds of peppercorns. Also used different adjustments to get the grind size you want.'),
('Pie Pans', '- A pan shaped like a plate with sides that is used to bake pies, quiches and frittatas. - Pie plates are commonly made from heat-resistant glass or aluminum. The glass pie plates give the flakiest results and are what we recommend. Glass also produces a more evenly browned crust. Aluminum pans with a dull finish or darkened pans yield a well-baked, tender browned under-crust. Shiny metal pie pans reflect the heat and result in soggy bottom pie crusts and are not recommended. - Common sizes of pie plates are: 9 inches in diameter by 1 inch deep; holds approximately 4.5 cups, 10 inches in diameter by 1 inch deep; holds approximately 6 cups, Deep Dish: 9 inches in diameter by 2 inches deep; holds approximately 6 cups, Deep Dish: 10 inches in diameter by 2 inches deep; holds approximately 8 cups - Tips: If you’re not sure about the size of your pan, measure the diameter from the inside rim. Do not grease a pie plate, unless recipe states to do so. Make sure to secure the edges of a pie crust to the rim of pie plate to avoid shrunken or misshaped pies.'),
('Pie Weights', '- Small ceramic or aluminum pellet-like weights used to keep an unfilled pie or tart crust from shrinking during baking. - Pie weights can be found in gourmet stores and in the baking section of some supermarkets. - Substitutions: Rice or beans can be used as an alternative. If rice or beans are used repeatedly, they will burn and become musty with use. - Tips: Pour 1 to 2 cups of pie weights into an unfilled, foil lined pie crust before baking. Crust should be pricked with a fork prior to adding the pie weights. Some recipes call for removing the pie weights and lining half way during baking time. Read recipe directions carefully.'),
('Pizza Wheel', '- A pizza wheel is a hand held kitchen tool that has a round, sharp blade for cutting slices of pizza. - Substitutions: A knife will work just fine. - Tip: Slice sandwiches, cut bars and some flat desserts.'),
('Plastic Wrap', '- Plastic wrap is food wrap that is a thin, transparent plastic sold on a roll. It is used to wrap food, as it clings to the food and the container to make an airtight seal. - Substitutions: Food storage containers, plastic kitchen bags or aluminum foil can be used to wrap or store food. - Tips: There are many brands and some have extra clinging power.'),
('Potato Masher', '- A potato masher is a kitchen utensil used to mash potatoes and other vegetables. One common type has a long firm handle connected to a flat plate which has perforations in it. Some have a serpentine shape. Some are stainless steel and some are nylon. - Substitutions: A hand or stand mixer can be used to mash potatoes and other foods. - Tip: Mash other vegetables, such as rutabagas or sweet potatoes.'),
('Potato Ricer', '- A potato ricer is a hand-held kitchen utensil which is used to force food, like potatoes, through small holes. Potatoes are placed in the bottom cup of the masher. The top cup is then pressed down, forcing the potatoes to come out in short strands. On some ricers there are different blades for regulating the size of the riced potato. Potatoes can be served like that or quickly mashed without using a potato masher. - Substitutions: A potato masher could be used to force potatoes through a colander. - Tip: Potatoes which have been riced are a novelty in most homes. Top the potatoes with butter, salt and pepper and serve.'),
('Pots and Pans', '- Pots and pans are kitchen utensils used to cook food. They are available in many sizes and made from many types of materials. - The most common sizes are 1, 2 and 3-quart saucepans. - A skillet is a kitchen pan used for sautéing, cooking eggs or frying chicken. It has low sides compared to a saucepan and are available in many sizes: 8 to 12-inch skillets are the most common. Many are sold without a lid. Skillets with sloping sides instead of straight sides are often called saute pans. - A larger pan is referred to as a Dutch oven or stockpot. - Pots and pans are made from many different materials: Anodized aluminum goes through a process which makes the aluminum nonreactive to acid, resistant to scratching and creates a non-stick surface. It is very popular, also called hard anodized aluminum. Aluminum is light and durable. It is heat sensitive, heating and cooling quickly. Since it reacts to acid or alkaline food, it is usually coated with stainless steel or a nonstick surface. Stainless steel is durable and nonreactive to acid. It is rust resistant and won’t pit. It doesn’t conduct heat very well, so is often combined with copper or aluminum as a base layer. Copper is a good heat conductor but it is easily dented and tarnishes. It is often used as a base or thin layer in a pan. Cast-iron is heavy. These pans heat slowly and distribute heat well. They also rust and need to be seasoned. Some cast iron skillets are now sold pre-seasoned. Some pans have a porcelain enamel exterior and often a hard anodized interior. - Tips: Pots and pans are often sold in sets. If a set contains most of the pans you would like, it might be the most economical route. Otherwise, buy pans that you need. Some sets have lids for skillets and pans that are interchangeable. That is good for storage. Nonstick surfaced pans make clean up easier.'),
('Pressure Cooker', '- A pressure cooker is a stovetop or electric kitchen pot where steam pressure builds up quickly, cooking food above the boiling point. A pressure cooker is a quick way to cook meats, sauces and other foods which take a long time to cook. It is often 5-quarts, but other sizes are sold. - Pressure canners are used for home canning. It is larger than pressure cookers and have a pressure gauge on the valve of the canner to safely process low acid foods. The pressure must be monitored during the cooking time. They are heavy pots and come in various sizes. - Water bath canners are used to can non-acidic foods and are usually 21 ½ quarts. They are often sold with jar racks, tongs and a canning jar lifter. - Substitutions: A Dutch oven or heavy pot will work for moist heating methods, but it will take longer. For canning low acid foods you must have a pressure canner. - Tips: Read the manual, especially for canning. A required time and pressure is needed for food safety.'),
('Ramekins', '- Ramekins are small souffle dishes. The most common size holds 8 ounces. They are fluted on the outside and smooth on the inside. They are usually ceramic and are sold in white or various colors. - They are used in baking small desserts or to serve individual portions. - Substitution: Custard or muffin pans may be used if they are large enough. - Tips: These small dishes make ideal serving pieces for dips, salsas, candy, nuts, etc. Baked or frozen desserts in ramekins are an attractive way to serve dessert. Bake individual servings of macaroni and cheese, au gratin potatoes, etc.'),
('Rice Cooker', '- A rice cooker is an electric countertop kitchen appliance. - Rice and water are placed in a removable cooking pan which is placed over an electric base. As the steam builds the rice is steamed. - More elaborate models, sometimes called food steamers, have extra trays for steaming meat, fish or vegetables which are cooked at the same time as the rice. - Most rice cookers have temperature controls for numerous cooking functions. - Substitutions: Cook rice according to package directions in saucepan. - Tips: Read the manual. There are many foods such as soups, stews, oatmeal and vegetables that can be prepared in the rice cooker.'),
('Roasting Pan', '- A roasting pan is a large pan used for roasting meat and poultry. - It often comes with a meat rack which holds the cooking meat or poultry out of the drippings and fat which aids in crisping the skin of the poultry. - Roasting pans are most often made of stainless steel, aluminum or enamel. They come in various sizes. Some have a cover. - Substitutions: For roasting substitute a 13x9-inch baking pan, if it is large enough. - Tips: These are bulky pans. Store infrequently used kitchen tools and items inside them.'),
('Rolling Pin', '- A rolling pin is a long round cylinder used to roll out dough or crush cracker crumbs. - Rolling pins are generally made from wood, but can be made from marble, glass, ceramic, porcelain or plastic. - Some rolling pins have handles at each end, making the rolling pin easier to handle and to allow for uniform pressure to be exerted. - A rolling pin cover is a stretchable "stocking" that fits over the rolling pin. - Substitutions: A large wooden dowel about 12 inches long may be substituted for a rolling pin. A clean white athletic tube sock can be used as a substitute for a rolling pin cover. Slip over one end of a rolling pin, then cut off the opposite end. - Tips: Only a light dusting of flour is needed to prevent dough from sticking to the rolling pin cover, eliminating the tendency to use too much flour when rolling out soft dough. The rolling pin cover must be cleaned before storing to prevent any fat residue from becoming rancid.'),
('Salad Spinner', '- A salad spinner is a piece of kitchen equipment used to spin greens dry. Washed greens are placed in a perforated basket. This is inserted in the large bowl of the spinner. Then either a hand lever or pump spins the basket, spinning the greens dry. The water drains to the bottom of the spinner. - Substitutions: Buy prewashed greens. Rinse greens well and pat dry on clean kitchen towels or paper towels. - Tips: Use the base to store the dry greens. Use the spinner to spin dry a large quantity of herbs.');

INSERT INTO equipment (name, usage_instructions) VALUES
('Saucepan', '- A saucepan is a kitchen utensil used for cooking food. - Saucepan materials include:   * Anodized aluminum  * Aluminum  * Stainless steel  * Copper  * Cast-iron  * Porcelain enamel - Substitute: Cook food in a microwave.  - Tips: Saucepans are sometimes sold in sets with skillets and have lids that are interchangeable.  Non-stick surfaced pans make clean up easier.'),
('Scale', '- A scale is a piece of kitchen equipment used to weigh foods. - There are many types of kitchen scales: spring operated, balance or digital. - Substitution: Metal and glass measuring cups.  - Tips: Many recipes now provide both a cup measurement and a weight measurement. Read the manual to learn how to use a scale.'),
('Scoop', '- A scoop is a kitchen utensil used for specific tasks. - Scoops can be made of plastic, stainless steel or other metal. - Use: Ice cream scoop, portion food, measure cookie dough. - Substitution: Measuring cup, tablespoon, or kitchen spoon.  - Tips: A 2 to 3-inch scoop is good for ice cream and mashed potatoes.'),
('Sifter', '- A sifter is a kitchen tool used to aerate flour and sift lumps out of food like powdered sugar. - Substitution: For some foods a colander could be used.  - Tip: There is no need to sift flour. Just gently spoon the flour into a measuring cup.'),
('Skewer', '- A skewer is a thin rod of stainless steel used for broiling or grilling food. - Use: Meat, poultry, vegetables, and fruit can be threaded onto the skewers to create kabobs. - Substitution: A grill basket.  - Tip: Soak bamboo skewers in water for 20-30 minutes to prevent burning.'),
('Skillet/Saute Pan', '- A skillet or saute pan is a kitchen pan used for sautéing, cooking eggs or frying chicken. - Skillets are made from many different materials: Anodized aluminum, aluminum, stainless steel, copper, cast-iron, and porcelain enamel. - Substitute: Depending on the food, you can cook food in a microwave, a toaster oven, wok or electric skillet.  - Tips: Skillets are sometimes sold in sets with saucepans and have lids that are interchangeable. Nonstick surfaced pans make clean up easier.'),
('Slow Cooker', '- A slow cooker is an electric countertop kitchen appliance. - It cooks with a low, constant heat, often 6 to 10 hours. - Sizes range from 1 to 6 quarts. - Substitute: A Dutch oven or other heavy pot with a tight lid.  - Tips: Don’t fill a slow cooker more than half full.'),
('Spaghetti Server', '- A spaghetti server is a kitchen tool that lifts cooked pasta out of boiling water. - Use: The spaghetti server also neatly portions out a serving of pasta. - Substitution: Drain pasta into colander.  - Tip: Most spaghetti servers are nonstick and dishwasher safe.'),
('Spatula', '- A spatula is a flat, narrow kitchen utensil, made from rubber, plastic or metal, that comes in several sizes. - Use: Flexible metal spatulas are good for spreading frostings on cakes. - Substitutions: Use a plastic turner on a non stick baking pan or sheet.  - Tips: If crumbs or residue from baked cookies stick to the edge of spatula when removing cookies to a cooling rack, be sure to clean edge of spatula before continuing so cookies do not distort in shape as they are being removed from the baking sheet.'),
('Spoon', '- A spoon is a kitchen tool used for stirring and mixing. - Use: Spoons are available in many sizes and made of many different materials. - Substitutions: Try using a large tablespoon.  - Tips: Some plastic or silicone spoons are high heat tolerant.'),
('Steamer Insert', '- A steamer is an adjustable, collapsible piece of kitchen equipment. - Use: Steamers are often made of stainless steel. - Substitution: Cook vegetables in a pan with a small amount of water.  - Tips: A steamer insert can be used as a colander to drain foods.'),
('Stockpot', '- A stockpot is a large kitchen pot with tall, straight sides. - It is used to make soups, stews, sauces and stock. - Sizes range from 8 to 12 quarts. - Substitution: A Dutch oven or a large pot could be used if it is large enough.  - Tip: Since these are big pans, you can store other infrequently used pans or kitchen equipment inside the stockpot.'),
('Thermometer', '- An oven thermometer is used to verify that the oven temperature is correct. - Tips: Place the oven thermometer in the middle of the oven away from the sides to obtain an accurate temperature reading.'),
('Toaster', '- A toaster is a countertop electric kitchen appliance used for toasting bread, bagels and heating refrigerated toaster products. - Use: Two or four slice toasters are the most common. - Substitutions: A toaster oven or oven broiler.  - Tips: Clean the crumb tray often.'),
('Toaster Oven', '- A toaster oven is a countertop electric cooking appliance used to perform many of the functions of an oven. - Substitutions: An oven can perform all the functions of a toaster oven.  - Tips: Reheat foods like pizza in the toaster oven. The crust will stay crisper than if it is reheated in the microwave.'),
('Tongs', '- Tongs are kitchen equipment used to remove food from boiling water or turn over meat. - Some tongs have a lock feature which closes the tongs for storage. - Use: Salad tongs have a large fork and spoon-like base at the bottom of the double handle. - Substitution: For meat a pancake turner would work.  - Tip: Salad tongs have a large fork and spoon-like base at the bottom of the double handle.'),
('Toothpick', '- A toothpick is used to determine doneness of cakes, bars and quick breads. - Substitution: A metal cake tester may be substituted for a toothpick when determining doneness of a baked product.  - Tip: Use a clean toothpick each time you check for doneness.'),
('Vegetable Peeler', '- A vegetable peeler is a kitchen utensil that is used to pare the skin from vegetables or fruit. - Substitution: A paring knife can be used to peel vegetables or fruits.  - Tip: Replace when the blade gets dull.'),
('Waffle Iron', '- A waffle iron is a countertop electric appliance that is used to make waffles. - The waffle iron heats from the top and the bottom, creating a crispy waffle. - Substitute: A honeycomb of raised grids or ridges, give waffles their appearance.  - Tips: Look for an iron with a nonstick surface, making it easier for the waffles to release.'),
('Wax Paper', '- Wax paper is a thin sheet of paper that has wax on both sides so it is moisture-proof. - Use: It is used to line cake pans for easy removal of cake layers, wrap sandwiches and cover foods during microwaving. - Substitutions: Plastic food storage bags, aluminum foil, plastic wrap, parchment paper.  - Tips: Roll out cookie dough or pie crust between 2 sheets of wax paper.'),
('Whisk', '- A wire whisk is made from a series of looped wires fastened at the top by a long handle. - Whisks are used to whip air into ingredients, such as egg whites or whipping cream. - Substitutions: Use a portable electric mixer or wooden spoon.  - Tips: If whisking a very small amount such as one egg white, a fork can be used to whip the mixture and incorporate air.'),
('Wok', '- A wok is a large kitchen stovetop pan or a countertop electric cooking appliance used to stir fry food. - Many woks are nonstick and come in various sizes. - Substitution: A large skillet can be used to stir fry.  - Tip: Steam or braise food in the electric wok.'),
('Wooden Spoon', '- Wooden spoons do not scratch non-stick pans. - Keep a variety of wooden spoons available for baking projects. - Substitutions: A large sturdy plastic spoon can be used instead of a wooden spoon.  - Tips: Always wash and dry wooden spoons after use. Allow them to air dry.'),
('Zester', '- A traditional zester is a small kitchen utensil used to remove the zest from citrus fruit. - Some zesters have a hole at the end which can be used to cut ribbons of peel for garnishes and drinks. - Substitutions: Many small, fine graters will also remove zest from citrus fruit.  - Tips: If you are just juicing fruit, remove the zest and freeze.');

INSERT INTO equipment (name, usage_instructions) VALUES
('Double Boiler', '- The bottom pan holds simmering water. The second, smaller pan holds the food to be cooked. - Sauces, custards, and puddings can be cooked this way without constant stirring. - Use to melt large quantities of chocolate and keep it at a constant temperature for dipping candy, strawberries, or pretzels. - Cook polenta and grits in a double boiler.'),
('Dutch Oven', '- A Dutch oven is a large, heavy-bottomed, oven-safe pot with a tight-fitting lid. - It can be used to braise meat, cook pasta, or make soups and stews. - It is good for moist cooking methods. - A Dutch oven can go from stovetop to the oven. - Substitute a heavy pot with a tight-fitting lid or a stock pot.'),
('Egg Beater', '- An egg beater is a hand-held kitchen tool with two beaters. - It is used to beat eggs, whipping cream, or egg whites, as well as mix batters like pancakes. - Wire whisks, hand or stand mixers can also do the job of an egg beater.'),
('Egg Separator', '- An egg separator is a kitchen tool used to separate the white from the egg yolk. - Crack each egg into a separate bowl before adding it to other ingredients.'),
('Egg Slicer', '- An egg slicer is a tool for slicing hard-cooked eggs. - Cut the egg with a knife. - To make chopped egg for egg salad or potato salad, rotate the direction of the egg and cut through with the wires again. - Slice mushrooms with the egg slicer.'),
('Electric Mixer', '- An electric mixer is a kitchen appliance used to beat, mix, or whip batter. - Mixtures may be creamed, mixed, or beaten by hand using a wooden spoon or whisk. - A large food processor can be used for some baking recipes instead of a mixer. - Whipping cream will be faster if the bowl and beaters are chilled before beating.'),
('Electric Skillet', '- An electric skillet is a countertop cooking appliance used to saute, fry, and cook food. - It is good for cooking meat that requires a moist cooking method. - Substitute a Dutch oven or a large skillet on the stovetop.'),
('Fondue Pot', '- A fondue pot is used to cook meat and vegetables in hot oil or broth or to serve cheese or chocolate fondue. - Fondue forks are used to spear food and place it in the hot liquid. - Fondue pots can be kept hot over a candle or another heat source.'),
('Food Processor', '- A food processor is an electric countertop cooking appliance with various blades and discs. - Mini food processors can be used for smaller tasks. - Depending on the task, a blender, mini food chopper, cutting board and knife, or grater can be substituted.'),
('Funnel', '- A funnel is used to transfer liquids or dry foods into containers with small openings. - Make a funnel with waxed paper or parchment paper to transfer spices. - Many sizes of funnels are available.'),
('Garlic Press', '- A garlic press is used to press a clove of garlic through small holes, extracting the juice and pulp. - A sharp chef\'s knife or paring knife and a cutting board can be used as a substitution.'),
('Grater', '- A grater is a hand-held kitchen tool with sharp grooves for grating and shredding. - Food processors, mini food choppers, and zesters can be used depending on the food. - Grate food onto waxed paper to simplify cleanup.'),
('Griddle', '- A griddle is used to make pancakes, grilled sandwiches, sausages, and bacon. - A skillet can be substituted for eggs, pancakes, and grilled cheese.'),
('Grill Pan', '- A grill pan is a stovetop pan with ridges used for indoor grilling of meats, vegetables, and fish. - A heavy skillet, broiler pan, or an outdoor grill can be substituted.'),
('Grills', '- Gas, charcoal, or electric grills are used outdoors for grilling meat, vegetables, fruits, bread, and pizzas. - A griddle, skillet, or broiler can be used to cook many of the same foods.'),
('Grinder', '- A coffee grinder is used to grind whole coffee beans. - Spices can be ground in a coffee grinder. - A food processor may be able to handle processing smaller chunks of meat and vegetables.'),
('Hot Pad', '- A hot pad is used to protect your hands when removing a pan from the oven. - Select hot pads made from thick layers of fabric. - Keep hot pads dry to prevent burns.'),
('Huller', '- A huller is used to remove the hull from strawberries. - Use a paring knife as a substitute.'),
('Immersion Blender', '- An immersion blender is used to blend soups, make smoothies, or whip cream and egg whites. - A blender or food processor can be substituted in most situations.'),
('Jelly-Roll Pan', '- A jelly-roll pan is a shallow, rectangular pan used to bake thin cakes or bars. - Substitute a 13x9 inch baking pan for a 15x10x1 inch jelly-roll pan.'),
('Juicer', '- A juicer is used to squeeze juice from citrus fruits. - Cut the citrus fruit in half and hand squeeze the juice into a fine-meshed strainer.'),
('Kitchen Shears', '- Kitchen shears are heavy-duty scissors used for cutting fish, poultry, meats, and produce. - In certain baking or cooking applications, a sharp knife can be used.'),
('Kitchen Timer', '- A kitchen timer is used to accurately keep track of baking time. - Prevent over-baking by setting the timer for the minimum baking time in a recipe.'),
('Ladle', '- A ladle is used for serving soups or beverages. - A small measuring cup can be substituted. - Wood or plastic-coated spoons won’t scratch nonstick pans.'),
('Loaf Pan', '- A loaf pan is a rectangular baking pan used to bake bread. - Substitute a pan with a similar capacity if you don\'t have the right size. - To prevent sticking, grease the pan with no-stick cooking spray.'),
('Mandoline', '- A mandoline is used to slice, julienne, or shred vegetables and fruits. - A cutting board and knife can be substituted. - Julienne vegetables quickly with a mandoline.'),
('Measuring Cup', '- There are two types of measuring cups: for dry and liquid ingredients. - Use the proper measuring cups for dry and liquid ingredients.'),
('Measuring Spoon', '- Measuring spoons come in sets of 1/8 teaspoon to 1 tablespoon. - It is important to measure accurately particularly in baking.'),
('Meat Fork', '- A meat fork is used to hold meat or poultry when carving or for turning meat in a skillet. - A meat fork that may have come with your silverware set could do the job.'),
('Meat Mallet', '- A meat mallet is used to tenderize meat by flattening and breaking the surface fibers. - The edge of a plate can be used to pound the surface of meat.')

('Baster', '- When purchasing a new baster, check that it is heat resistant at high temperatures. - A baster can be used to apply a marinade to meat or vegetables.'),
('Blender', '- Read the manual. - Turn off the blender before removing the lid. - Choose a blender with 500 watts or more. - Use to make smoothies and frozen drinks. - No air is incorporated during the processing, so egg whites or whipping cream cannot be whipped.'),
('Bread Pan', '- To determine pan size, measure length and width of the pan across the top inside. Measure height from the inside of the pan, holding a ruler straight up from the bottom. - To prevent a loaf from sticking, always follow the recipe directions for greasing or spraying the pan with no-stick cooking spray.'),
('Broiler Pan', '- Read the oven manual. With electric ovens, the oven door must remain slightly ajar. - Watch food that is broiling so it doesn\'t burn. Most recipe directions suggest broiling 5 inches from the heat source. - Lining the bottom of the pan with aluminum foil will help with cleanup. - Use the bottom pan to roast vegetables. - Try the broiler pan to toast buns or bread, melt cheese on sandwiches or broil fish.'),
('Cake Pan', '- An 8-inch square pan holds 1 cup more batter than an 8-inch round pan. Usually, square pans are 2 inches deep and round pans are 1 1/2 inches deep, therefore, a square pan will hold more. - Dark-colored and glass bakeware absorbs more heat than shiny bakeware, therefore a baked product will brown more quickly in these pans. - Follow recipe directions for greasing or spraying the baking pan with no-stick cooking spray. - Do not grease a tube pan before baking an angel food cake or sponge cake. The batter needs to cling to the side of the pan as the cake rises during baking -- greasing the pan prevents the batter from sticking to the surface of the pan and the cake will not be light and airy.'),
('Can Opener', '- Read the manual for electric can openers. - Some models of electric can openers are tall and are good for opening tall juice cans. - Be sure and keep the blade clean by frequently washing in sudsy, hot water. - An electric can opener in a power outage is useless.'),
('Candy Thermometer', '- Test candy thermometer for accuracy before using. Place bulb of candy thermometer in a pan of rapidly boiling water. Be careful not to let the bulb touch the bottom of the pan. Read the temperature at eye level while the thermometer is in the water. It should read 212°F or 100°C. - If the thermometer does not measure boiling temperature correctly, remember to adjust the candy temperature during cooking to reflect the difference.'),
('Carving Set', '- Skip the set and buy a good carving knife.'),
('Casserole', '- Metal 8, 9, or 13x9-inch pans can also be used, although acidic dishes, such as tomatoes in lasagna, may discolor aluminum pans.'),
('Cheese Slicer', '- A sharp knife and a cutting board can be used for the cheese slicer or plane.'),
('Cheesecloth', '- Line a colander with cheesecloth for straining out fine unwanted particles or cloves in a canning liquid.'),
('Colander', '- A large strainer or sieve can be substituted.'),
('Convection Oven', '- Experiment with your favorite recipes by reducing the oven temperature by 25°F. and adjusting the baking time. Food baked in a convection oven is done about 25% faster than in a conventional oven - Preheat the oven prior to convection baking as you would also do if using a conventional oven. The oven temperature should reach the correct baking temperature prior to baking. - Allow at least 1 inch between the pans and also between the edges of the pan and the oven walls. This space is needed so the air is circulated evenly in the oven. - It is best to keep the oven door closed as much as possible during the baking time so that airflow is maintained.'),
('Cookie Cutter', '- Dip cookie cutter into flour to prevent cutter from sticking to the dough.'),
('Cooling Rack', '- When baking cookies use a cooling rack with closely spaced wires or spokes so cookies have adequate support when cooling. - Cover the rack with a sheet of waxed paper before placing a delicate cake on the rack to prevent the surface from getting damaged or sticking to the rack.'),
('Corer', '- Always place the apple on a cutting board before using the apple corer. This will protect the countertop. - An apple corer can also be used on fresh pears.'),
('Custard Cup', '- Custard cups are ideal to hold small amounts of ingredients such as minced garlic and chopped herbs when preparing a recipe. - No popover pan? Use custard cups. - Use to melt butter or chocolate in the microwave. - Use as a substitute cookie cutter; turn the custard cup upside down and cut out rounds of cookies or biscuits from dough.'),
('Cutting Board', '- Food safety is critical with cutting boards. Do not cut vegetables or fruit on a cutting board which was used to cut meat. Some cooks use color coded cutting boards, using red for meat, green for vegetables, and blue for seafood. - Knife cuts in wooden cutting boards are hard to clean. Wood is porous and bacteria can grow in these cuts and on the board. Soak wooden cutting boards in a solution of 1 tablespoon bleach to a gallon of water for 2 minutes, then wash in hot, sudsy water. - New plastic or silicone cutting boards can be washed in the dishwasher.'),
('Deep Fat Fryer', '- Read the manual. - Follow recipe directions for the required oil temperature. - Make sure the oil used has a high smoke point, meaning it can be heated to a high temperature without smoking. - Oil must be hot or food will be greasy or burned. Most fried foods should have a crisp crust and a moist interior. - Oil can sometimes be reused if cooled and strained to remove any solids. Use the strained oil to cook the same type of food. - Add food gradually to avoid spatters and burns.');

INSERT INTO equipment (name, usage_instructions) VALUES
('Aluminum Foil', '- Use for lining baking pans and wrapping food for freezing. - Avoid using with acidic foods like tomatoes as it can cause pitting. - Generally not recommended for use in the microwave oven.'),
('Baking Dishes', '- Opt for attractive casseroles for easy table presentation and cleanup. - Casseroles are ideal for one-dish meals combining meat, starch, and vegetables with sauce or soup.'),
('Baking Sheet', '- Prefer shiny aluminum baking sheets without sides for optimal results. - Cool baking sheet completely before reuse. - Bake one sheet of cookies at a time on the middle rack for even baking. - Dark-colored sheets brown products faster; parchment paper lining aids in cleaning and prevents scorching. Follow recipe directions for greasing or spraying the baking sheet.'),
('Baking/Cookie Sheet', '- Prefer shiny aluminum baking sheets without sides for optimal results. - Cool baking sheet completely before reuse. - Bake one sheet of cookies at a time on the middle rack for even baking. - Dark-colored sheets brown products faster; parchment paper lining aids in cleaning and prevents scorching. Follow recipe directions for greasing or spraying the baking sheet.');



